# [The ToolChain](#the-toolchain)
Imagine you have a brilliant idea, and you decide to bring it to life with a C++ program. You open your favorite text editor, type out a simple program to greet the world, and save it with the .cpp extension. But have you ever wondered what happens behind the scenes to turn that plain text into a running application?

Let me take you on a journey through the toolchain that makes it all possible. Lets first discuss the components of the toolchain and then we will see stepwise description of execution.

 - A Toolchain is the set of Programming Tools that are used to create a softwares.
 - The Tools are used in a chain, So that the output of each tool becomes input for the next tool.

## [Components of the Toolchain](#components-of-the-toolchain)

### [Editor](#editor)
 ✓ Editor is program in which we can write our code and edit that code.
 <br>
 ✓ Gedit, kwrite are the example of editors.
<br>

#### Example
Program : **Demo.C**
```
//Header file inclusion
#include<stdio.h>
//Macro definition
#define MAX 10

int Add(int No1, int No2)
{
    //Local variable
    int Ans;

    Ans = No1 + No2 + MAX;
    printf("Addition of Two Numbers is %d",Ans);
    return Ans;
}
```
<br>

### [Preprocessor](#preprocessor)
 ✓ The Preprocessor provides the ability for the inclusion of the header files, macro expansion, conditional compilation and line control.
<br>
 ✓ Preprocessor take lines beginnering with `#` as directives. Because it knows nothing about the underlying language.
<br>
 ✓ After Preprocessing it will give the expanded code as a output having extention **.i**.
<br>
 ✓ Expanded output given by preprocessor is in human understandable format.
<br>

#### Example
Program : **Demo.i**
```
int printf(const char * format,...);
int scanf(const char * format,...);

int Add(int No1, int No2)
{
    int Ans;
    Ans = No1 + No2 +10;
    printf("Addition of Tow Numbers is %d",Ans);
    return Ans;
}
```
<br>

### [Compiler](#compiler)
 ✓ Compiler is a program which is used for transating source code from a high level programming languages (like C, C++) to lower level programming language (like assembly language, machine, machine language).
<br>
 ✓ In this case we consider that output is in assembly language having extension `asm` or `.s`.
<br>
 ✓ Code which is generated by the compiler is machine dependent.
<br>

#### Example
Program : **Demo.asm**
```
Add:PUSH ECX
PUSH EDX
ADD ECX,EDX
ADD ECX,10
MOVE EAX,ECX
RETN
```
<br>
 

### [Assembler](#assembler)
 ✓ Assembler is a program which translates assembly language program to an object file, which contains code in machine language.
<br>
 ✓ Object file contains machine code, But still it is non-executable having extension `.obj`.
<br>

#### Example
Program : **Demo.obj**
```
10010111011010111000
10000001001110100000
00100100010010111000
10010111111010111000
11001100000010111000
10010000011010001011
11110111011010111011
00010100011010111010
10010111011010111011
00010111011010001110
```
<br>


### [Linker](#linker)
 ✓ A Linker is a program that takes one or more object files and combines them into a single executable program having extension `.exe`.
<br>
 ✓ Linker adds primary header over executable file which contains address of entry point funtion, magic number, time-date stamp, type of executable (Executable can be self-executable or dependable executable).
<br>

#### Example
Program : **File.exe**
<br>

File1 : Demo.obj
```
10010111011010111000
10000001001110100000
00100100010010111000
10010111111010111000
11001100000010111000
10010000011010001011
11110111011010111011
00010100011010111010
10010111011010111011
00010111011010001110
```
<br>

Other.obj
```
11110111011010111000
10000111101110100000
00000100010010111000
10010111111010110101
11111100000010101010
00000000011010001011
11110111011010111011
00010100011010111010
10010111011010111011
10000111011010001110
```
<br>

Demo.exe
```
10010111011010111000
10000001001110100000
00100100010010111000
10010111111010111000
11001100000010111000
10010000011010001011
11110111011010111011
00010100011010111010
10010111011010111011
00010111011010001110
```
<br>



### [Loader](#loader)
 ✓ A Loader is a program which is is part of operating system that is responsible for loadind programs.
<br>
 ✓ It praoces program in memory (RAM) and prepares them for execution.
<br>
 ✓ Loading a program involves reading the contents of execution file like text, data into the memory.
<br>

#### Example
Program : **Demo.exe** running in RAM
```
10010111011010111000
10000001001110100000
00100100010010111000
10010111111010111000
11001100000010111000
10010000011010001011
11110111011010111011
00010100011010111010
10010111011010111011
00010111011010001110
```
<br>
<br>


## [Stepwise execution of Toolchain](#stepwise-execution-of-toolchain)

**Step 1:** First we write a program in any programming language like C/C++ on editor and then save program. When we save the program with appropriate file extension like .c / .cpp get stored in hard disk in format of file (File is unformatted uniform stream of bytes).
<br>
In this step program is in human understandable format. And our task is to convert this format to machine understandable format i.e Machine language.
<br>
<br>

**Step 2:** To achieve this first we pass our program to the preprocessor. Preprocessor gives the expanded source code as a output. But still our program is in human understandable format



